again brian should you be friends with
someone
who thinks it is acceptable to commit a
holocaust
what does it say about you as a person
when you're friends
with someone who supports a holocaust
many of you will come to this video just
expecting me to point the finger
and laugh at how ridiculous richard's
reasoning here and maybe to reflect a
little bit
on what it would mean to have a more
reasonable a more rational argument on
this topic
what many of you may not know
[Music]
is that richard has been in this
position himself
richard has been friends with neo-nazis
richard has been friends with racist
white nationalist activists here on the
internet
and he has made youtube videos
justifying
or excusing this strange situation
again and again for years
and i was personally involved with the
effort
to present the evidence to richard
that these people he was supporting
these people he was friends with
really were racist with a capital r
and not racist in the sense of having a
latent hostility
not racist in the sense of passive
bigotry
you know you may have a grandfather an
aunt or an uncle who's just just kind of
lazy and ignorant
and they say racist things in passing no
no no no
you may have seen a youtube video of
someone who's angry
that his girlfriend broke up with him
and says racist things on the phone when
freaking out at his ex
no we're talking about people
who were deeply committed to being
activists
for neo-nazi organizations activists
for white nationalist white supremacist
agendas
and in one case one of these people he
was friends with
one of these people he supported um tara
mccarthy
who had what was then a very popular
quote-unquote radio show
it was a podcast and a youtube channel
so both video and audio but whatever she
called it
like a radio call-in show it was her
format
you know she got a question from the
audience
asking her if she would support
exiling richard himself kicking richard
out
of canada not allowing him to live in
the united states or canada
because he is you know he is considered
black in fact his family background is
that you know
his mother is white and his father is
black as
you know african-canadian what do you
want to say she was directly asked about
this saying hey look you're friends with
this guy
this is your political position their
political position was they wanted to
exile
everyone non-white from this continent
the united
appeared on st youtube channel and her
answer was that yes she would apply this
to him too
and long story short she gave a bit of a
meandering answer but yes her policy of
exiling
all non-white people that would apply to
richard also i was the one who sent
that clip to him i said richard what are
you doing don't you you know wake up
this is what's going on you know it's
possible someone else sent in the clip
and it got to him first but as i recall
based in his reply
it seemed like that was the first time
he'd really seen that faced up to that
i shared first the clips with him and
then though he
he specifically requested to see the
whole video
unedited of a long long racist rant
with tara mccarthy and cory mccarthy
sitting next to it was both racist and
genocidal
i can i can honestly say that many ways
these people richard was friends with
uh they were worse than adolf hitler i
know that's hard to believe but in
principle
what these people believe what they
preached it was actually worse than
hitler's doctrine
and whether or not it would be worse in
practice i mean it's hard
it's hard to be worse than adolf hitler
but these people were really in that
ballpark all right this is not
just latent bigotry whatever this is
really serious neo-nazi
racist activism and richard was publicly
promoting these people publicly friends
with these people
and promoting their business or their
businesses plural
which included you know one of them
offering
vegan diet and fitness advice so
what could be more absurd than richard
coming on and condemning someone
for being friends with a meat eater and
saying would you be willing to be
friends with someone who was a
a nazi or a neo-nazi
you know life life is full of
contradictions
richard here you are
a black canadian vegan
activist and you yourself
have a long history of friendship with
people
this is not a complete list it's not you
have a long history of friendship with
people
who were vocal racists
vocal white supremacists why don't you
have a little bit of humility
in looking in the mirror and answering
that same question
why and john
and brian are friends now brian
i want to ask you why do you even want
to be friends with human trash
would you be friends with a nazi i don't
really
see a big difference between john venus
and a nazi i mean they both
support unjustifiable discrimination and
they want to
commit a holocaust against the group
they're discriminating against
so why do you want to be friends with
nazis brian
most of these arguments we engage in
on the person-to-person intimate scale
of choosing who you're going to be
friends with who you're going to fall in
love with you're going to get married to
on that most intimate scale of your
private life and your family life okay
most of those arguments don't rest on
evidence they won't be decided
by evidence i think it's a little bit
interesting to point out in this case
how paradoxical or nonsensical it would
be
to demand of richard where's your
evidence to support this argument
how could evidence possibly support one
side of this argument
or the other i don't know evidence seems
to be
irrelevant to it i think that should
direct us
to reconsider even more profoundly what
it means to be
reasonable what it means to reason
things through in the absence
of evidence okay
if there is some kind of reasonable case
to be made
that there's a valid comparison between
john venus eating meat
and someone joining like a neo-nazi
racist political movement if there's
some kind of allegory there
some kind of parallelism right richard
has completely failed
to present it right and if that argument
were
valid to some limited extent i think
there's an onus on you as the person
presenting the case to talk through
the limits of that argument okay there
were a lot of reasons
why you'd be friends with someone who's
who's racist right
and the one that comes to my mind first
and foremost is
because you thought they were going to
get better because you thought they were
going to improve
you know and a lot of us have an uncle
or a cousin or something
someone we didn't really choose to be
friends with
and you know they're racist you know
they're messed up about this issue or
that issue and you stay in touch with
them and you keep encouraging them and
you know
you want them to get better you want
them to improve and that may not be the
only reason
maybe you know maybe also you're both
watching the mandalorian and you want to
talk about you know you have other
things in common that your your friends
about
but you know i think there are
three ex-vegans i've stayed in touch
with
uh and they're all people i met because
of this youtube after they went
yeah after they stopped being vegan and
returned to eating meat
of those three one of them today is now
vegan again and sincerely so you know
ethically not just for
health reasons or or weight loss or
something
now you know if you asked me
why did i remain friends with people or
why did i try to remain
i think with all three i think i still
am trying um
you know my fundamental answer is
because i can
like because i have it in me to give and
i'll be honest
i don't think what they need i don't i i
didn't think any of them would would go
back to me vegan
one of them has two of them haven't i i
didn't expect any of them to go back to
being vegan
and the two were eating me today i still
don't i don't expect them to
to go back and yeah you know every so
often when i talk to those people i mean
they
watch my youtube channel they know i'm
still vegan they're you know
they still see some value in in the
message i'm presenting
uh whatever it may be but you know yeah
you're saying to them look this door is
still open for you
this option is still here if you'd have
a more meaningful life a more morally
responsible life
all those things you used to preach
about veganism
you know i'm still out here living
living by those principles and you're
not
so sure you know i'm aware
that by staying in their lives i'm at
least making
them aware there's there's a door open
there now i can argue against my own
position
in terms of richard's relationship with
cory mccarthy and tara mccarthy
and you know richard and ask yourself
together i think if you look at them as
a unit they were connected to a whole
bunch of other crazy
right-wing racist figures which is very
strange
you know if if richard had gone on to
tara mccarthy's show or gone on to cory
mcgregor's show
to really challenge them to really say
hey you're a hypocrite
hey you're living a lie you're you're
sleepwalking through a dream here
if he had gone there in this sort of
self-confident way
to represent a contrasting opinion and
if in his personal friendship
with them he had done that also if his
position was he was trying to drag them
out of
the quagmire of racist and neo-nazi
views they'd
you know gotten and snared in of course
that'd be very different
and we all know that's that's not true i
mean yes i have the strange privilege
and the kind of emotional burden of
being someone who knew richard
personally during those years
and you had a lot of messages back and
forth on this particular issue i really
did talk to him
in depth and over a long period of time
we all know that's not true
richard is a weak person richard is a
follower
richard has all his life lacked a father
figure
and he looked up to cory mccarthy i mean
he hung on that guy's every word
and cory mccarthy presented him with the
most laughable
set of excuses for why he allegedly
wasn't racist
and i got to see you ask yourself isaac
also jump on that bandwagon like
well you know if you define the term
racism
so narrowly that not even adolf hitler
qualifies as a racist anymore
then you know by that definition this
guy's not racist
and i mean very very simple and obvious
questions
like hey you know you know what the
indigenous people of canada the united
states are not white
very very simple questions like hey you
know you know richard
you are not white and these people
you're in bed with they openly say they
want to kick you out of the country
remember
screenshotting the front page of their
website that website's long gone they
used to have a red
website preaching their their values
preaching their crazy
neo-nazi master plan and i sent him the
screenshot i said richard
how can you say to me that these people
are not
racist just read what this is setting
out here
um you know
richard was not someone who engaged in
those
friendships with racists in order to
speak truth to power
he was someone who got into those
friendships out of his own
profound childlike weakness
and you know
any friendship that's based on
assumptions
about that person's potential
to be a better person in the future
that's fundamentally a friendship built
on a lie
because what you're really saying is
i'm not friends with this person for who
they are
but for an idea that i have in my own
head of who they could be
who they should be who they might become
it's very very hard to have a friendship
that's built on a lie
even if it is in this sense an
optimistic
encouraging in some sense
a loving lie